Comprehensive Guide to U.S. Visas Essential Details on Obtaining and Using a Visa for Entry into the United States Understanding U.S. Visas Definition of a Visa: A visa is a physical stamp affixed to a passport page that permits a foreign national to enter the United States for a specific purpose.Where to Obtain a Visa:Visas can only be obtained at U.S. consulates/or embassy outside of the United States.Visa Specifics:A person needs a valid visa only if they are physically outside of the United States and wish to enter the United States in a particular visa status. Essential Details on Obtaining and Using a Visa for Entry into the United States First-Time Entry Visa Requirement: If you are entering the US for the first time will need to apply for a US Entry Visa (Citizens of Canada and Bermuda are exempt)  Renewing an Expired Entry Visa: If you are a continuing student or scholar and your US Entry Visa has expired you will need to apply for a new visa in order to return to the US from abroad.   Exceptions for Travel to Contiguous Territories: There are certain exceptions to the Entry Visa requirement for travel to contiguous territories such as Canada and Mexico.  Visa Status Check: The U.S. Department of State provides an online Visa Status Check, which allows both immigrant and non-immigrant applicants to check the status of their cases at the Consular Electronic Application Center.  Where to Apply Generally, students and scholars are required to schedule an appointment with a US consulate / embassy so that the consular post can interview the applicant personally. Drop-Off or Mail-In Visa Applications: Consular posts in some countries have drop-off or mail-in visa application procedures for applicants renewing visas if they have already been fingerprinted during a prior application. Additionally, some consular posts have implemented new visa processing systems which impact fee payment and appointment scheduling. Country-Specific Visa Application Procedures: For further information, and to view a list of countries that have implemented the new system, please refer to http://www.ustraveldocs.com  or the U.S. embassy or consulate where they intend to apply for the visa to inquire about the consulate’s specific application procedures.  Documentation for Dependents: Dependents will need to show proof of the relationship to the primary visa holder, e.g. marriage and/or birth certificates.  See the DS-160 FAQs for instructions on completing the form.  Applying for a Visa in Your Home Country: It is recommended that students and scholars apply for US Entry Visas in their home countries.  Although many consulates will allow third country nationals to apply for visas, such individuals may face delays or difficulty proving non-immigrant intent. If denied a visa, the individual will not be allowed to (re)enter the US and will likely have to return to their home country directly from the country where the visa application was submitted. Visa Stamps The US Entry Visa is a stamp placed in your passport  Once your visa application is approved, the consular officer will issue this stamp in your passport.  The length of visas are determined by the DOS Reciprocity Table.  The expiration date has no bearing on your immigration status and permission to remain in the U.S.  The purpose of the U.S. Entry Visa is to gain entry to the U.S.  If you maintain your status you may stay in the U.S. and travel domestically with an expired visa.  You must obtain a new US Entry Visa in order to return to the U.S. after traveling abroad with an expired visa. F-1 & J-1 Visa Application and Entry Requirements For their visa appointment, F-1 and J-1 students must:  Pay the SEVIS fee– a one-time fee per each SEVIS number. You do not need to pay it again should you re-apply or renew your visa using the same SEVIS number. F-2 and J-2 dependents are not required to pay the SEVIS fee. Bring their SEVIS fee payment confirmation (that can be printed from the fee website) to the interview.  Be ready to show that they are bonafide students with adequate funding.  For their visa appointment, J-1 scholars must:  Pay the SEVIS fee– a one-time fee per each SEVIS number. You do not need to pay it again should you re-apply or renew your visa using the same SEVIS number. Bring their SEVIS fee payment confirmation (that can be printed from the fee website) to the interview.  Provide proof of adequate funding.  Entry to the US New F-1 students, J-1 students, J-1 scholars, and their dependents may enter the United States no earlier than 30 days before the program start date on the I-20 or DS-2019.  List of Countries with Limited or No U.S. Visa Services As a result of various conditions such as wars, natural disasters or security reasons, the U.S. Department of State (DOS) is forced to limit or suspend visa services in certain countries.   In order to accurately inform the public, DOS has posted a list of countries where U.S. visa services are limited or suspended, or countries where the U.S. does not have embassies or consulates. Please see the complete list of visa issuing posts here. Visa Delays Department of State (DOS) Application Processing Delays: Certain non-immigrant visa applicants will be subject to additional security checks and visa application processing delays before the visa is issued. Security Advisory Opinion (SAO) Requests: Depending on your country of origin, or if your field of study, research, or employment is in a sensitive area as referenced in the Technology Alert List (TAL), the consular officer might request a Security Advisory Opinion (SAO) from the DOS.  Lengthy SAO Process: An SAO involves multiple database checks and may be extremely lengthy.  Expedited Processing Requests: The DOS states that requests to expedite processing will not be considered.  Reporting Visa Delays to ISSS: However, if you are experiencing security clearance delays of more than 60 days, please inform ISSS and your Penn departments or schools. If your visa issuance is delayed by more than 180 days, ISSS will contact the US consular post to inquire about the case and to offer any possible assistance.   Advocacy for Smoother Visa Processing: By tracking visa delays and reporting to the Association of International Educators (NAFSA) and University government relations representatives, ISSS continues to be involved in advocating for smoother visa processing for international students and scholars.  Individual Case Resolution Limitations: However, individual case resolution is not possible at this point. While it is at the discretion of consular officer whether to request an SAO, individuals can hopefully avoid delays by making sure the documentation they present to the consular officer is complete and transparent.  Recommendations for Graduate Students and Scholars: It is recommended that graduate students and scholars in the sciences bring a letter from a Penn faculty or department member containing a brief description of their research in lay terms.  Returning students should also bring transcripts and proof of funding. Other Visa Delay Issues Processing times, appointment scheduling, and documentary requirements vary from consulate to consulate. Allowing Enough Time for Visa Application: It is important to allow enough time for the entire visa application process and to come prepared with the proper documentation. Consequences of Missing or Unclear Documentation: Missing or unclear documentation can lead to delays and possibly be reason for the consular officer to request an additional security clearance. Visa Application Video Guides Certain U.S. Embassies and Consulates have produced short informational videos as listed below on the non-immigrant visa application process. Please note certain steps and procedures may differ between locations. This list may not include all currently available videos.  London, U.K. (3:09)  Amman, Jordan (3:52)  Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (7:01)  Ankara, Turkey (2:35)  Dubai, UAE (4:04)  Manila, Phillipines  Mumbai, India (4:07)  F-1 FAQs from the Embassy in Hyderabad, India (5:06)  A Guide on What Not to Do From the Consulate in Frankfurt, Germany (6:27)  Automatic Visa Re-validation for Travel to Parts of North America Under certain circumstances, if you have an expired US Entry Visa, you may re-enter the US after a visit of 30 days or less to “contiguous territories” (Canada, Mexico, & Adjacent Islands) without having to obtain a new US Entry Visa prior to entry. This benefit is called “automatic re-validation of visa.”  Travel to Canada, Mexico & Adjacent Islands For Less Than 30 Days Required documents: Valid passport U.S. Entry Visa, expired or valid I-94 (passport stamp/I-94 printout or paper card) If issued a paper I-94 card (via land border), do not surrender it at departure. Without the current I-94 card, you will need valid visa to return to the U.S. If you are in F or J status, this benefit extends to the adjacent islands except Cuba.  Please consult the List of Adjacent Islands.   H, O, and E status holders are NOT eligible for automatic re-validation to the adjacent islands.  The automatic re-validation of visa benefit is not extended to: Ineligibility for Certain Non-immigrants: Non-immigrants from countries designated by the U.S. Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism  Individuals who have ever overstayed their visas   Non-immigrants who are applying for a new Entry Visa while in a contiguous territory  Applying for a New Visa in a Contiguous Territory: Those who choose to apply for a new visa in a contiguous territory or cannot use the automatic validation of visa benefit must receive the new visa before being granted permission to reenter the U.S.  If denied an Entry Visa, the individual will most likely have to return directly to the home country in order to obtain a new visa. Weighing Risks of Visa Application in Contiguous Territory: All students and scholars must carefully weigh the risks of security clearance delays and the possibility of not being able to return to United States before making arrangements to apply for a new visa in a contiguous territory.  Please note that Entry Visas to these countries may be required for certain foreign nationals. For travel to Canada, please see links below: Citizenship and Immigration Canada  Canadian Consulate in New York  Canadian Embassy