Deciding on F-1 or J-1 Status  A Guide for New International Students Eligibility Requirements  Learn about the eligibility requirements for acquiring F-1 and J-1 status below.  Which Status Does ISSS Recommend: F-1 or J-1?  Neither Penn nor ISSS recommends a specific status. We will process the document you request as long as you meet the eligibility requirements.  F-1 Status Eligibility  F-1 is the most common visa status used by students in the U.S. All non-immigrant students are eligible to apply for F-1 status. Learn more about the F-1 Student Visa. J-1 Status Eligibility  Only students who meet ONE of the following criteria are eligible to apply for J-1 status:  Criteria 1: Full-Time Degree-Seeking Students with Non-Personal Funding Full-time, degree-seeking students with a non-personal funding source that pays for 51% or higher of the total cost of your study at Penn (e.g. scholarship, fellowship, grant, or assistantship).  Examples of Non-Personal Funding Sources Penn, Rotary Foundation, home government, US government, international organizations (US must be a member by treaty or statute), and corporate sponsors. Criteria 2: Exchange students coming to campus through a Penn Abroad program.  Criteria 3: Exchange Programs with US Government Agreements Students in an exchange program carried out pursuant to an agreement between the US Government and a foreign government.  Criteria 4: Exchange Programs with Written Agreements Students in an exchange program carried out pursuant to a written agreement between: American and foreign educational institutions; American educational institution and a foreign government; OR US State or local government and a foreign government.  Note: Students are not eligible for J-1 status if their program has a clinical component.  J-1 Visa BasicsHere you can learn more about obtaining the J-1 Visa and other relevant visas. J-1 Exchange Visitor ProgramHere you can learn more about other J-1 Participant Experiences. F-1 vs. J-1 Comparison Chart  Area F-1 Status J-1 Status On-Campus Employment Allowed to work up to 20 hours/week while school is in session  With ISSS authorization, allowed to work up to 20 hours/week while school is in session  Off-Campus Employment Eligible for Optional Practical Training (OPT) if completing a minimum of 2 academic semesters or Curricular Practical Training (CPT).  Eligible for Academic Training. Non-degree and exchange students may receive work authorization for up to the length of the program.  Major of Study May change or add additional major(s) while at Penn.  Generally not eligible to change major while in the U.S.  212(e) Two-Year Home Residency Requirement  Not subject to this requirement.  May be subject if funded by home or US government or if field of study is in high demand in home country. If subject, cannot change status within the US or obtain certain visas unless 2 years are spent in home country or a waiver is obtained.  Health Insurance Requirements  Not required by immigration regulations, but Penn requires comprehensive medical insurance.  Mandatory medical insurance meeting J-1 regulations.  Dependents (study/work)  F-2 dependents may study part-time but cannot work.  J-2 dependents may study part-time or full-time and can apply for employment authorization from USCIS.  Additional Resources  Department of State: F-1 Student Visa  Department of State: J-1 Exchange Visitor Visa  Department of Homeland Security: Study in the States  What’s Next? Applying For YourI-20/DS-2019