Undergraduate Cost of Attendance SRFS Sidebar Menu Costs & Budgeting Explore Back to main menu Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Explore Back to main menu Undergraduate Tuition and Fees College of Liberal and Professional Studies Undergraduate Summer Session Graduate Cost of Attendance Explore Back to main menu Graduate School of Education Penn Carey Law Perelman School of Medicine Explore Back to main menu MD Program PSOM Master's & Certificate Programs School of Arts and Sciences School of Dental Medicine Explore Back to main menu DMD-PASS Graduate Dental Education School of Engineering and Applied Science School of Nursing School of Social Policy and Practice School of Veterinary Medicine Weitzman School of Design Wharton School PhD Programs Graduate Summer Session Liberal and Professional Studies Graduate Program Costs Estimate Your Costs Fee Definitions Billing & Payment Explore Back to main menu Understanding Your Bill Paying Your Bill Explore Back to main menu Penn.Pay Explore Back to main menu Penn.Pay FAQ Third Party Payment Contracts Payment Status Wire Transfer Instructions Tuition Refund Plan Billing Schedule Financing and Payment Plans Explore Back to main menu Penn Payment Plan Tuition Prepayment Plan Student and Parent Loans Explore Back to main menu Types of Loans Explore Back to main menu Nursing Graduate Loans Explore Back to main menu Nursing DNP Loans Nursing Masters Loans Loan Repayment Explore Back to main menu Federal Student Loan Repayment Public Service Loan Forgiveness Federal Loan Consolidation Student Loan Exit Counseling E-sign Line of Credit Student Account Refunds Local Banks Billing Contacts Student Fund Recovery Financial Aid Explore Back to main menu Undergraduate Aid Program Explore Back to main menu Financial Aid 101 How We Determine Need Facts and Figures Applying for Financial Aid Financial Aid Funds Explore Back to main menu Grants and Scholarships Explore Back to main menu Mayor's Scholarship Program Explore Back to main menu Mayor's Scholarship FAQ Outside Scholarships Student and Parent Loans Explore Back to main menu Types of Loans Explore Back to main menu Federal Direct Loan (Undergraduate) Federal Direct PLUS Loan (Undergraduate) Federal Direct Loan (Graduate) Federal Direct Grad PLUS Loan Health Professions Student Loan Nursing Student Loan Private Alternative Loans Comparing Graduate Loan Options Institutional Loans Wharton Graduate Loans Explore Back to main menu MBA U.S. Citizens Wharton Domestic and International Students Alternative Student Loans Wharton EMBA U.S.Citizens Wharton Lauder U.S.Citizens Loan Repayment Explore Back to main menu Federal Student Loan Repayment Explore Back to main menu Return to Federal Repayment FAQ Public Service Loan Forgiveness Federal Loan Consolidation Student Loan Exit Counseling E-sign Graduate Student Loans FAQ Work-Study Explore Back to main menu International Student Work-Study Summer Funding Emergency Funding FAFSA Comment Code Guide Federal Verification Dependency Status Information Financial Aid Counseling Explore Back to main menu Undergraduate Counseling Highly Aided Undergraduate Counseling Graduate Counseling International Student Financial Aid Explore Back to main menu International Students and U.S. Taxes Financial Aid for Undocumented Residents International Student FAQ Veterans and Military-Affiliated Students Explore Back to main menu VA Chapter Benefits - Current and Prospective Students Veteran Status for Federal Aid Yellow Ribbon Program Using Your Benefits Federal Tuition Assistance (FTA) VA Benefits FAQ VA Disclosures and Resources Highly Aided Students Explore Back to main menu Highly Aided Summer Funding Financial Aid Forms Student Employment Explore Back to main menu Search for a Job Student Employment Options Explore Back to main menu Federal Work-Study Non-Work Study International Student Work-Study Pay Schedule Receiving Your Pay Information for Hiring Managers Explore Back to main menu Federal Work-Study Community Service Information for Off-Campus Employers Student Employment Forms Student Employment FAQ Contact Student Employment Registration, Catalog & Calendar Explore Back to main menu Course Registration Course Rosters and Timetables Explore Back to main menu Archives Final Exam Information Holds Path@Penn Penn Academic Calendar Quaker Consortium University Catalog Student Records Explore Back to main menu Request a Transcript Explore Back to main menu Transcript Key Student Grades Explore Back to main menu Grade Mode Change Course Action Notices Notary Services Degrees, Graduation, and Diplomas Explore Back to main menu Graduation Application Request Education Verification Explore Back to main menu Request Verification Form Request Verification Letter Request Verification of Records Not Maintained by OUR Third Party Verification Requests Diplomas Explore Back to main menu Diploma Checklist for Graduating Students Diploma FAQs for Graduating Students Diploma/Translation Order Request Form FAQs Update Your Student Data Explore Back to main menu Update Required Contact Information Preferred First Name & Legal Name FAQs External Credit Explore Back to main menu External Credit FAQs Withdrawals and Leaves of Absence Student Privacy Policies & Publications Explore Back to main menu Policies Publications Student Financial Responsibility Statement Faculty & Staff Resources Explore Back to main menu Pennant Access Requests Pennant Aid Explore Back to main menu Pennant Aid Resources Pennant Aid Support Pennant Records Explore Back to main menu Curriculum Manager (CM) Explore Back to main menu Curriculum Manager (CM) Contacts CourseLeaf Section Scheduler (CLSS) Pennant Accounts Explore Back to main menu Pennant Accounts Feeder App Explore Back to main menu Pennant Accounts Feeder App FAQ Pennant Graduate Funding Pennant Plus Pennant Accounts Forms Pennant Cost of Attendance Workflow Pennant Accounts Support User Documentation Explore Back to main menu Banner Navigation Quick Reference Guides Data Warehouse Collection Pennant Glossary Advising@Penn Courses@Penn Grading Guidelines Tuition Distribution Process University Classroom and Facility Scheduling Financial Wellness @ Penn SRFS Below Traversable SRFS Offices Contact Us Events & Deadlines Path@Penn Information about the annual cost of attendance for traditional undergraduate students.  Understanding Cost of Attendance 2025-2026 Academic YearThe cost of attendance represents the cost of attending Penn for an academic year, and includes both direct costs that appear on your student bill such as tuition, fees, housing, and dining, and indirect costs that are not billed by Penn, such as books and supplies, transportation, and an allowance for personal expenses. Students should consider their cost of attendance as their budget for each academic year. Penn also uses the cost of attendance to help determine a student’s eligibility for financial aid. Penn lists three costs of attendance for the undergraduate schools. The first applies to students living in on-campus housing with a meal plan, the second applies to students living off-campus in a building unaffiliated with the university, and the third applies to students living at home with their families, learning remotely or commuting to campus.An asterisk (*) indicates a billed expense in each scenario. All other expenses are unbilled and are used to determine financial aid eligibility and to inform your personal budgeting.  Living On CampusLiving Off CampusLiving With FamilyTuition$63,204*$63,204*$63,204*Fees$8,032*$8,032*$8,032*Housing$13,132*$12,978$0Food$6,744*$5,988$2,318Books and Supplies**$1,412$1,412$1,412Transportation$1,080$1,080$1,756Personal Expenses$2,008$2,008$2,008Total Budget$95,612$94,702$78,730**Books and Supplies for first-year students in the School of Nursing are $1,742 for the academic year**Books and Supplies for second, third, and fourth-year students in the Wharton School will average $2,350 for the academic year 2024-2025 Academic Year Living On CampusLiving Off CampusLiving With FamilyTuition$60,920*$60,920*$60,920*Fees$7,766*$7,766*$7,766*Housing$12,640*$12,564$0Food$6,534*$5,796$2,318Books and Supplies$1,358$1,358$1,358Transportation$1,062$1,062$1,706Personal Expenses$2,008$2,008$2,008Total Budget$92,288$91,474$76,076   Cost of Attendance Categories Tuition and fees are fixed costs. These mandatory fees include the general fee, the educational technology fee, and the student health clinical fee.  The housing allowance is based on the standard room rate in the University College Houses. Students are required to live in on-campus housing during their first two years of enrollment. Students paying rent off-campus have a housing allowance to cover nine months of living expenses. Please click here for additional information and guidance on how financial aid applies to off-campus living expenses.  The food allowance represents the cost of one of the first-year dining plans through Penn Dining. Students are required to participate in a meal plan during their first two years of enrollment. For students who live off-campus, an allowance for food purchases is included.  The books and supplies allowance provides for the expected annual cost for textbooks and supplies.  The transportation allowance provides for standard local commuting. The personal expenses allowance assumes expenses for clothing, recreation, etc. For students living at home with family, this allowance can be used for Internet access.  Additional Considerations While the cost of attendance tends to be standard for all Penn students, there are additional expenses that may be added to an individual's cost of attendance. Below are some common additions to the cost of attendance. Student Health Insurance Requirement Students who do not have health insurance, whose plans do not provide coverage in the Philadelphia area, or whose plans do not meet Penn’s criteria for alternative insurance will automatically be enrolled in the Penn Student Insurance Plan (PSIP). This cost will be added to your cost of attendance. Click here to read more details about the plan on the Student Health and Counseling website. Please contact SFA if you would like to request additional financial aid to cover the cost of PSIP.  Travel Allowance in COA For students from the U.S., we add a separate travel allowance to account for two round-trips home. The amount is standardized by region and based on your permanent address: Eastern/Central: $904 (Excluding NJ, NY, MD, PA, DE, CT) Mountain/Pacific: $1,244 Alaska/Hawaii: $1,244 International students should speak to a financial aid counselor to determine their eligibility for travel funds.  Population-Specific Costs College of Liberal and Professional Studies Students Because your cost of attendance is based on the number of courses in which you are enrolled, your cost of attendance will vary. Your cost of attendance will be based on the number of credits you are registered and enrolled for in a particular term. Most importantly, this will be based on LPS tuition rates. If you change your registration plans, please contact your assigned financial aid counselor or submit a revised registration form so we can adjust your cost of attendance and aid. These changes may also impact your financial aid eligibility. Please note: LPS students are not eligible for Penn’s grant-based financial aid program.  Married Students and Students with Dependents Your cost of attendance will reflect the expenses of a single student living in Philadelphia. Expenses incurred based on marital status cannot be considered in your cost of attendance. Childcare costs may be considered. Speak to a financial aid counselor for specific requests.   Students Living Off-Campus The off-campus housing allowance is based on a survey of off-campus residences and accounts for a room in an average two-bedroom apartment over a nine-month period.  It does not include funding for a security deposit or upfront first/last-month rent payments. The off-campus dining allowance is based on information about average grocery costs from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, plus a minimal campus meal plan that allows students to eat two meals a day on campus. If you receive financial aid and choose to live off-campus, your financial aid award will be based on the off-campus cost of attendance. Please click here for additional information and guidance on how financial aid applies to off-campus living expenses.  Keep Exploring This Section Undergraduate Tuition and Fees College of Liberal and Professional Studies Undergraduate Summer Session